>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
In this episode, we're going to
be talking about a disease that
afflicts so many people in the
United States and worldwide.
It's a disease that most people
feel hopeless-- that they
can't fix, that
they can't solve.
It's called cancer.
We call it the Big C.
My special guest
on "Beyond Belief,"
Ty Bollinger-- noted author,
"Cancer: Step Outside the Box."
I want to say from the outset--
Ty is not a medical doctor.
He is not going to give
you medical advice.
But he's going to talk
about what happened to him,
and what experiences he had
in his own personal life
to begin to write about
and research cancer.
Ty, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>TY BOLLINGER: George,
great to be here.
>>NOORY: Always a pleasure.
>>BOLLINGER: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How's life?
>>BOLLINGER: Life's good.
Life's very good.
>>NOORY: CPA by trade, right?
>>BOLLINGER: Yes, I am.
Yes, I am-- masters in
taxation, as a matter of fact.
>>NOORY: How in the
heck did you end up
writing a bestselling
book on cancer,
when you're a certified
public accountant?
>>BOLLINGER: Great question.
1996, July the 1st, my
father, Grand Bollinger,
was diagnosed with cancer.
He died on the 25th of July.
So in a period of 25
days, he was gone.
>>NOORY: Raced through him.
>>BOLLINGER: It
just destroyed him.
And he actually-- the
surgery is what killed him.
They took this
whole stomach out,
it was riddled with cancer's
tumors, and he bled to death.
And I began at that time,
to begin research treatments
for cancer-- natural
treatments for cancer.
Began to learn a lot about these
natural herbs and plants that--
very effective at
treating cancer,
that are not all
that well known.
And over the course of
the next seven years,
after I lost my dad, I lost both
granddads, grandmother, uncle,
cousin, and finally my mother.
>>NOORY: Cancer?
>>BOLLINGER: To cancer.
And at that time, I'd been
researching for seven years,
I'd been compiling
information-- which
is what I learned to
do in graduate school.
The reason I mention
the masters in tax,
if you can read through
the Internal Revenue Code,
and you can translate that
nonsense into a memorandum
that people can understand,
I can do the same
with medical literature.
And that's what I did.
And that's when I published
the book was after mom died,
a couple years.
I had to get this
information out there,
because I just
wanted to help people
to have that knowledge as
they face the diagnosis.
>>NOORY: I lost a family
member to cancer-- my sister,
she had stage four cancer.
They gave for six months
to-- she lasted two years.
She didn't do
everything alternative.
She did experimental
treatments, chemo, radiation,
dabbled a little bit
I think with hemp oil.
But she really didn't dive
into the alternative medicine.
I wish she would have, but it
was her family's decision--
and her decision-- to try to
go the conventional route.
Stage four brain cancer is very
difficult to stop, improve.
>>BOLLINGER: It is.
>>NOORY: But much like
you, it's a subject
that I've tried to investigate
all my career, because I've
always been fascinated at
how a mutated cell can create
these cancer tumors, and
then faster within a body,
and then eventually
kill the person.
Whether it's a simple melanoma,
or cancer of the liver,
or like you said in your
case, stomach cancer
with your relative-- what
is this thing called cancer?
>>BOLLINGER: Well, you
mentioned something
that's real important there,
you mentioned the spreading.
And I'll get to
that in a minute.
But what is cancer?
Cancer is the body's
mechanism to wall off
cells that have aberrant DNA.
Cancer cells are different
than normal cells.
Cancer cells ferment glucose
for energy, for instance,
normal cells are aerobic.
So yeah, cancer
cells feed on sugar.
Which is why we've always
heard-- if you have cancer,
get rid of sugar.
That's why-- it
feeds cancer cells.
But these cells, they
have different DNA.
They've changed DNA.
Whether it be from the exposure
to the environmental toxins--
which according to the American
Cancer Society website,
about 90% to 95% of
cancers are caused
by environmental toxicity.
So whatever it is that's
caused these cells
to have aberrant DNA,
the tumor is really
the self mechanism of
the body to protect.
It walls off the cells.
But what we do with
conventional treatments
is we cut out the tumor.
Now what we have,
in essence, done
is we have removed the symptom.
In essence, it's kind
of like the check engine
light in your car-- it's
going off, it's flashing,
something's wrong with the car.
Do we smash it with a hammer?
Doesn't alleviate the problem.
But that's really what--
>>NOORY: Put in a brand
new engine, right?
>>BOLLINGER: We fix the engine,
we fix the problem, right?
And then the light goes off.
So that's why conventional
treatments, while they do
remove the tumors
a lot of times--
and it's not that you need it.
Brain cancer, for
instance, with you sister.
>>NOORY: And it grew back.
They took it out, it grew back.
>>BOLLINGER: And
why did that happen?
>>NOORY: And she said
after that, though,
after two operations-- I'm done.
No more.
>>BOLLINGER: Right,
and it happened
because we didn't
fix the underlying
problem in the body
with the immune system,
and then the cancer grows back.
So sometimes removing
the symptom, the tumor,
is essential.
If you've got a
fast-growing brain tumor,
there's no place in the skull,
you've got to remove it.
But you need to
fix the underlying
imbalance in the body.
And if we do that, the
cancer cells go away.
The check engine light
goes off, because there's
nothing wrong with
the engine anymore.
>>NOORY: Do the cells float
within the bloodstream?
>>BOLLINGER: Cancer cells do.
But a normally
functioning immune system
is able to tag those cells.
They target them, they
see something different,
they tag them and
they kill them.
>>NOORY: They know
something's wrong.
>>BOLLINGER: They know
Sometimes they'll wall it off
into a tumor, when there's
too many to kill, they'll
wall it off in a tumor.
What do we do?
We biopsy the tumor to
see if it's cancerous.
What does that do?
It seeds the cancer
into the bloodstream.
Not a very wise choice,
biopsies, in my opinion.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
What would you do?
Just leave it alone?
>>BOLLINGER: No, well
there's non-invasive tests.
Biopsies are tests,
mammograms are tests,
PSA tests-- they're all
conventional tests for cancer.
All of them have their issues.
There are better tests
that are non-invasive that
don't cause the
spreading of the cancer,
such as the AMAS
test-- anti-malignant
antibody in serum.
Noninvasive blood
test-- you can measure
the amount of anti-malignant.
You can do what's called
a Navarro urine test that
measures the amount of HCG--
human chorionic gonadotropin--
in the urine.
That's a cancer marker.
So there's a lot
of tests that we
can do that are non-invasive
that won't spread the cancer.
>>NOORY: Is it true that cancer
cells are in all our blood
systems throughout?
You have it, I have it,
everybody in this building
has it.
>>BOLLINGER: Everyone in this
building, everyone that's
watching in this TV
program, George, has cancer.
We are constantly creating
cancer cells every day.
It's a normal bodily process.
But again, back to the immune
system-- mutated cells,
it just happens.
It happens.
The immune system
that's working,
though, is able to target, tag
them, kill them, or wall them
off in a tumor eventually.
But it's not the
tumor that kills you,
though, George--
it's the spreading
of the cancer that
kills typically.
But we're all creating
cancer cells every day.
If you're immune system's
working properly,
you won't be diagnosed with
life threatening cancer.
As a matter of fact,
I just finished
a documentary miniseries
called "The Truth about Cancer:
The Quest For the Cures,"
interviewed dozens
of medical doctors, and
every one of them to a T
said, if you have a fully
functioning immune system,
you can't have cancer.
>>NOORY: But that's
the big question--
how do you get the immune
system up and running?
>>BOLLINGER: Great question.
There are some basics.
Number one, we're all being
exposed to environmental toxins
that are compromising
the immune system.
Some of them we can't
do anything about-- we
can't do anything about the
air we breathe, got to breathe,
can't really control
the quality of the air,
unless you want to move
to the mountain somewhere.
Water we drink, we
do have control over.
Try to minimize the
chemicals in the water,
because fluoride and
chlorine are carcinogens.
The food that we're eating--
we have control over that.
Pesticides on the food--
if it's not organic,
you have pesticides.
Pesticides are
xenoestrogens, they
have an estrogenic
affect on the body.
The body's estrogen
to testosterone ratio
goes out of whack,
and you give rise
to estrogen-sensitive
cancers, like breast cancer,
cervical cancer, uterine,
prostate, testicular cancers.
So we can control the food.
Watch out for genetically
modified organisms,
they do cause cancer.
So the way that you keep your
immune system functioning is
to take control
over these things
that we have been given control
over, and eat clean foods,
drink clean water, exercise,
detoxify-- all these things
that we can do, that we know
in our mind that we should do,
we need to actually do.
>>NOORY: For years modern
medicine and big pharma
have been trying to fight
cancer-- we think, right?
They get millions of dollars,
maybe billions of dollars
in funding to try
to fight cancer.
Modern medicine and
pharmacies have yet
to develop anything that could
completely eradicate cancer.
Why not?
Do they not want to do it?
I mean, my god, if
they've solved cancer,
where's the next
dollar coming from?
>>BOLLINGER: More people are
making a living off of cancer
today then are dying from it.
I've heard that quoted by
many researchers and doctors.
Do they really want
to cure cancer?
Yes-- the people at
the bottom level, that
are running for
the cure, they're
working their tails
off to cure cancer.
The top dogs in the
pharmaceutical companies,
in the American Cancer Society,
a lot of these non-profits,
I think they're not all that
incentivized to cure cancer,
because they're making
a living off of it.
Now, when you talk about
the war against cancer
over the past century,
we've seen much more
of a war against natural
cancer treatments
than we have against
actually fighting cancer.
You look at Royal
Raymond Rife, you
look a Harry Hoxsey, many other
doctors over the past 100 years
have been persecuted,
run out of the country,
even imprisoned for
treating cancer naturally.
It almost seems like the
efforts, the funding,
the manpower, has been focused
on attacking natural cancer
treatments and
shutting them down,
as opposed to really
finding a cure.
>>NOORY: I know the FDA
comes down on people who say,
this cures cancer.
This does is this.
We know several people
they're going after right now
who have said things like that.
How do you get around that?
>>BOLLINGER: Well, great
question-- let me be clear.
Nothing that I talk
about today, or nothing
that I ever talk
about, cures cancer.
None of the supplements, none
of the foods, none of the herbs,
none of the treatments,
they don't cure cancer.
What they do, the thing
that they have in common,
is that they will
target cancer cells--
so they will kill some
of the cancer cells--
>>NOORY: But they build
up the body's immunity.
>>BOLLINGER: That's the key.
They give your body
the fuel that it
needs for the immune
system to run properly,
and your body cures cancer.
The supplements don't,
the foods don't, none
of these treatments cure cancer.
They give your body the
ammunition that it needs,
where your body
fights the cancer,
and that's the way it
was intended to be.
>>NOORY: I mean my dad lived
to 88, he died because he fell.
He didn't have cancer.
I've got an uncle
in Boston, he's
90-- he doesn't have cancer.
Yet my sister came
down with it--
I'm convinced she got
it on her cellphone,
because it was right
on her left-hand side.
>>BOLLINGER: We can
talk about that.
>>NOORY: So there's
something going on there.
So some people are genetically
strong enough not to catch
cancer.
George Burns lived to
what, 100 years old?
Smoked cigars.
But other people are
predisposed to get cancer.
Why is the difference?
>>BOLLINGER: The difference,
as we go back to frequently,
is the immune system.
So if you look at the American
Cancer Society's website right
now, they've got
a document called
"Cancer Facts and Figures 2013."
On that document-- and
most of the most time
you go to the doctor,
they say, your genetic.
It's genetic, you're going
to get cancer, it's genetic.
Well the ACS says only 5% of
cancers have a genetic trait.
95%--
>>NOORY: That's not a lot.
>>BOLLINGER: It's
very, very small.
The huge percentage, the 95%,
is environmental toxicity.
So we look at the
immune system--
some people may have a
more healthy and strong
immune system naturally,
to where they can fight off
these toxins, where they
can smoke or drink to 100
and not get cancer.
Where somebody like my father
that never smoked, never drank,
didn't really do anything
aberrant-- not that that's
aberrant-- but anything out of
the ordinary that would cause
cancer, he died of cancer at 52.
All the more reason
for someone like
me, that might have
that inherently weaker
immune system, to be
very active at keeping
my immune system strong.
>>NOORY: Do you sometimes think,
oh boy, when I get close to 52,
look out?
Is that in you?
>>BOLLINGER: It
was 15 years ago.
Right now cancer doesn't
scare me at all anymore,
because I have the
knowledge to treat it.
I know how to treat almost
every different kind of cancer
naturally.
You know, how to
fuel the body-- how
to make the body work to get
rid of those cancer cells.
I've learned the protocols.
I know the doctors.
I've included most
of them in the book.
And so I'm not afraid
of cancer anymore.
But yeah, 15 years ago,
that was one of the reasons
that I started doing
detoxification, changing
my diet, because I was scared
to death of getting to 52
and catching cancer.
You don't really catch it,
but I was afraid of that.
>>NOORY: Ty, why does it
seem that when they operate
on someone, when that
oxygen hits the system,
cancer seems to spread
all over the place?
>>BOLLINGER: Well, when
they operate on someone--
>>NOORY: They open you
up, and something happens.
>>BOLLINGER: They
operate on someone
and they cut into
a cancerous tumor,
cutting into a tumor seeds
the cancer into the blood.
It causes the cancerous cells
to go into the bloodstream.
>>NOORY: Where it might
have been isolated.
>>BOLLINGER: Well,
it was isolated--
that's the body's
self-protection mechanism,
is to wall it off into a tumor.
It's not spreading
at that point.
Most of the spreading
of cancer happens
from either the diagnostic
treatments, or the treatments
themselves-- like surgery--
to try to remove a tumor.
There's no way if you remove
a tumor that you are not
going to cut into that tumor
and spread some of those cancer
cells into the bloodstream.
Then it goes through the
blood, into the lymph,
and it's everywhere.
>>NOORY: What about some
people who say, I had cancer,
but now I'm cancer free?
Can they justifiably say that?
>>BOLLINGER: Well,
I guess they could
say that I'm symptom free.
None of us are cancer free,
because as we mentioned,
we're all producing
cancer cells.
So we all have cancer.
Most of us at this
point still don't
have a life-threatening
diagnosis of cancer.
Most of us may not
have any symptoms
of the cancer that's
in our bodies,
because the immune
system's doing its job.
And many people that have
been treated conventionally,
they're alive years later,
and they're cancer free.
And so people that have
been treated conventionally
and are alive 10, 15 years
later, I'm so happy for them.
People say, oh, you
only want people
to get treated alternatively.
No, I want people
to have the freedom
to do whatever they want in
the United States of America.
This is the land of the free.
You should have the option
to do this, or that,
it should be your choice.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about
chemotherapy, radiation,
and natural supplements.
Chemotherapy-- it's chemicals.
How does it work?
How does it not work?
>>BOLLINGER:
Chemotherapy is a set
of chemicals that targets
fast-dividing cells.
Cancer cells are
So does chemotherapy
kill cancer cells?
Heck yeah.
>>NOORY: And does it
kill everything else?
>>BOLLINGER: That's the problem.
It kills the other fast-dividing
cells in your body.
Your hair follicles happen
to be fast-dividing.
That's why we lose our hair.
The intestinal lining in your
gut-- fast-dividing cells.
That's where you produce
your immune system.
That's why we get
sick and nauseated
when taking chemotherapy.
The bone marrow where we
produce red blood cells,
fast-dividing cells.
So chemotherapy, while
it's killing the cancer,
it's killing your immune system,
killing your bone marrow,
killing your body's natural
ability to protect itself.
That's the problem
with chemotherapy,
is that it's not selectively
toxic just to cancer cells.
And the most
expansive study that
I'm familiar with that
was done on chemo,
it was done at the Royal
City Cancer Center,
Sydney, Australia, published
2004, National Institutes
of Health, very reputable study.
Looked at 22 different
lines of cancer,
over 20,000 cancer
patients, they
determined that on a
five year survival rate--
which is how we
typically measure
cancer success--
chemotherapy 2.1% effective.
>>NOORY: Wow.
I talked to a researcher
from the City of Hope
in Los Angeles, and she
specifically told me,
I hate chemotherapy.
But right now, this
is what we have.
But she truly admits it's
not the best treatment.
>>BOLLINGER: It
doesn't work well.
It works well with some cancers.
It works well some lymphomas,
with some leukemias,
works well with
testicular cancer.
You know, so you've
got Lance Armstrong,
he used conventional
treatments, testicular cancer,
it works for some of those.
But anytime that you have
an advanced cancer that
has metastasized,
that it has spread,
chemotherapy is useless.
It really is.
>>NOORY: When some
people like my sister
develop stage four brain
cancer, obviously she
had stage one, two, and
three, and showed no symptoms,
or was never diagnosed.
How long do you think it
took, Ty, from that stage one
cancer that was in her head
to grow to that stage four.
>>BOLLINGER: Good question.
It depends upon the kind
of cancer, and the person,
but as a general rule, when
you have a cancerous tumor that
is diagnosed, and
it's stage four,
stage three, even--
life threatening--
five years at least
it's been growing.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BOLLINGER: So I am I
am very much in favor
of early detection.
>>NOORY: If you
can get it early--
>>BOLLINGER: If you can get
it early, you can beat it.
Now the problem is the detection
methods like mammography
for breast cancer, they
don't really detect early.
Because by the time
that they detect it,
it's already a tumor.
>>NOORY: It's too late.
>>BOLLINGER: It's
almost too late.
So you want early detection.
When you're looking at
breast cancer-- thermography,
a woman goes in the doctor's
office, sits on a table,
they blow cool air
over the breasts,
and they take a thermal image.
And the cancer cells are
more primitive cells,
they don't react
as quickly, they
leave a hot spot, a red
spot on a thermal image.
This can detect breast
cancer five years,
up to maybe sometimes
six, seven years,
before a mammogram would.
That's true, early detection.
>>NOORY: So you prefer
that test for a woman.
>>BOLLINGER: I prefer
advanced thermography.
It can detect the
cancerous cells
that are just beginning
to form the tumor,
beginning to get their
own blood supply,
that a mammogram
would not detect.
>>NOORY: Radiation treatment,
how does that work?
>>BOLLINGER: Well,
you know radiation
is a known carcinogen.
We know that radiation
causes cancer.
Look at the tens of thousands,
the hundreds thousands--
>>NOORY: So they use
radiation to kill cancer,
when we know it causes cancer.
>>BOLLINGER: They use
chemotherapy to treat cancer,
but it causes cancer.
It's a known carcinogen.
Radiation causes cancer, but
we use it to treat cancer.
Now, isolated cases,
like testicular cancer,
you can point that radiation
at a specific point that's
not internal to the body,
like the testes in a man.
You can use radiation
and do pretty well.
But if you have a cancer
that's in the internal organs,
it's not selectively
poisonous to those organs.
You radiate
everything around it.
I've got one of my best
friends in college,
his father was diagnosed
with advanced cancer.
They gave him one
round radiation,
he died within a month of the
radiation treatment, radiation
poisoning.
The treatment killed him.
>>NOORY: Might he have
lived longer without it?
>>BOLLINGER: He would have
lived longer without it.
And so that's the problem--
radiation causes cancer.
You look at Chernobyl, you look
at Fukushima, all the cancers
that have been
caused-- we know this,
but we treat cancer with
a cancer-causing agent.
It's a disconnect.
I don't understand it-- but
that's the standard protocol.
The oncologists, I don't blame.
They're doing the best they can
with what they've been given.
>>NOORY: With what they know.
>>BOLLINGER: But the
thing is, many of them
know that it doesn't work,
because a study at McGill
Cancer Center, in Montreal, they
surveyed oncologists and asked
them if they would take
chemo, if they were diagnosed.
>>NOORY: And most say?
>>BOLLINGER: Most,
over 90%, said no.
Yeah, they said no.
>>NOORY: "Cancer: Step outside
the Box," tell me about this.
This is more natural, isn't it?
>>BOLLINGER: This is a book
that not only deals with cancer
treatments, but a large part
of it is in preventing cancer
and how to be healthy naturally.
Because you want to
be proactive, and not
reactive to cancer.
You don't want to
have that diagnosis
of a large tumor
in your intestines
or your spleen or your
heart or your liver that
is going to kill
you in six months.
You want to be proactive
and prevent it.
What you do with
your cars is what
we should do with your bodies.
You catch it before
the big problem arises.
An ounce of prevention
is worth a pound of cure.
With cancer, I'd say
it's worth a ton of cure.
So we don't want to be
diagnosed with cancer.
And so you'd asked about
what's in the book,
it's mostly a prevention book.
Now, there are a lot of natural
treatments that you can use,
and I've sourced the
clinics and the doctors
that you can contact, but
this is a book for everybody
to stay healthy, because we
want to prevent cancer, not
just reactively treat it.
We want to proactively
prevent it.
And that's what we're
missing the boat,
I think, with modern treatments.
With this Run for the
Cure, October every year
is Run for the Cure.
A lot of good people
trying to Run for the Cure.
We should try to
run for the cause,
or run for the prevention,
or so we don't need the cure.
So we give the body what
it needs, so we never
have that diagnosis.
That's the ideal world.
>>NOORY: I've always
been told that cancer
lives within an acidic body.
So what do we do to make
your body more alkaline?
>>BOLLINGER: Well,
probably the easiest step
that we can all take is
if you drink sodas, stop.
Because sodas or very acidic.
The pH, the potential
hydrogen of our body
that measures the acid
versus alkaline balance,
it's a logarithmic scale,
which means it's base 10.
So if you're mathematician what
that means is something that's
a 7.0, on the pH scale,
versus something that's a 2.0,
it's not five times more acidic
it's one with five zeros.
It's 100,000 times more acidic.
>>NOORY: But cancer does
live in an acidic body.
>>BOLLINGER: Cancer
lives in an acidic body.
So if you're drinking
a lot of sodas,
your body is
becoming very acidic,
because the sodas are acidic.
Your blood's got to remain at
about a 7.3, or you're dead.
So then it begins to buffer
those acids with the minerals
from your cells, and then
your cells become acidic,
and that's a breeding
ground for cancer.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
Now you were talking
about starving cancer
from glucose or sugar.
What does cancer do?
Just thrive on sugar?
>>BOLLINGER: Cancer
thrives on sugar,
because these cells that have
mutated DNA, they have changed,
they have pleomorphed into
cells that live on glucose.
They ferment sugar.
So if you want to get rid
of those cancer cells,
get rid of their primary energy
requirement, which is sugar.
Quit eating processed,
refined sugar.
I'm not saying you
shouldn't eat fruits
that have natural sugars.
Good thing to remember,
it's man-made, it's madness.
If it's God-made, it's good.
So if it's natural,
it's fine to eat.
But if it's been tweaked by
man, these processed sugars,
stay away, because that
feeds the cancer cells.
>>NOORY: The white breads--
>>BOLLINGER: The white breads,
the starches, the white sugars,
the white carbs, turn to sugar,
and it feeds your cancer cells.
So if you hate your
cancer, starve it.
>>NOORY: How soon can
you start seeing change?
>>BOLLINGER: I have
seen, not personally,
but I have seen people that
were diagnosed terminally
see change within 30 days.
There was a man that I
interviewed on this latest
Quest for the Cures,
his name's Chris Wark--
he was diagnosed at
26, I think it was,
with terminal colon cancer.
He went natural,
completely natural.
He said it just
didn't make sense--
>>NOORY: No operation?
>>BOLLINGER: Well, he did
have an operation first
to remove the tumor.
But after that they wanted
to do chemo, radiation.
He said it didn't make sense
to him to poison his body
to get his body well.
So he said, I'm not
going to do that.
He began to do juicing, organic
salads, just heavy nutrition.
He said, instead of overdosing
my body on chemicals,
I'm going to overdose
on nutrition.
And he said, within I think
about a 60-day period,
he saw a beginning reversal of
the cancer, and within a year
or so-- before he was stage
three, terminal, and then
within a year, he's cancer free.
And now it's 13 years later.
>>NOORY: Ty, what about
the body's ability
to fight cancer just
by positive energy?
Focusing energy that way?
>>BOLLINGER: Well, you
know, eight years ago,
nine years ago when I
first published my book,
I would've thought
that was crazy.
I thought that
had nothing to do.
But I've learned a lot.
We're constantly learning.
>>NOORY: It's a good
supplement to this, isn't it?
>>BOLLINGER: It is.
It is.
Positive thought, the
belief system-- look,
when you're
stressed, when you're
exhibiting fear and
stress, your body
is secreting adrenaline,
cortisol, fight or fight
adrenaline.
These hormones have
been shown to compromise
the immune system.
When you're at peace,
when you're calm,
when you laugh, OK?
Laughter-- there was a
study that was done--
>>NOORY: Greatest
medicine in the world.
>>BOLLINGER: Laughter
is the best medicine.
I think the Reader's Digest
used to have a column
called Laughter's
the Best Medicine.
There were some
studies that were
done within the last
couple years that
show that one minute
of laughter stimulates
the immune system for 24 hours.
Now your average child
laughs 400 times a day.
And by the time we become--
>>NOORY: [LAUGHING]
There's one right there.
>>BOLLINGER: That's
good for you.
By the time you're an
adult, only 40 times a day.
So we've cut our laughter down
to about what, one tenth--
>>NOORY: Have you ever had one
of those moments with a friend,
a buddy, where you
started laughing,
and you laughed so
hard it actually hurts?
You can't stop.
Why does the body even laugh?
What is it about that complexity
that makes that happen?
>>BOLLINGER: I think
that laughter is just
a natural mechanism that's
been given to us by the creator
to keep our bodies healthy.
It's exercise, too.
When you laugh hard,
you're actually
toning the muscles
in your abdomen.
>>NOORY: What's in the
human system that does that?
Is it the mind that
makes the laugh?
Or something physical within us?
>>BOLLINGER: I think it's both.
I think it's mental,
I think it's also--
>>NOORY: It's healthy.
>>BOLLINGER: It's very healthy.
It's mental, emotional,
it's physical--
and it's a great release.
Because have you ever noticed
that when you've laughed hard,
you've had a big
bout of laughter,
you cry, are you stressed?
No, stress is gone.
Tension's gone.
You are just--
>>NOORY: You take
that deep breath.
>>BOLLINGER: You take a
deep breath, you're like,
I just worked out.
It's like a natural
exercise session.
>>NOORY: It's a great feeling.
>>BOLLINGER: It's
a great feeling.
Certain hormones
are released then
that are anti-cancer
when you laugh.
This has been shown empirically.
And on the flip side of the
coin, one minute of anger
has been shown to suppress
immune function for six hours.
So one more reason to
laugh instead of be mad.
>>NOORY: What natural
supplements and techniques
do you recommend?
We've talked on the radio
show about carnivora,
an immune booster.
What else is out there
that will help people build
that immune system, so
their body can take over?
>>BOLLINGER: Sure,
great question.
And if you're in the
southern states where I live,
you can go outside
almost year round
and get free vitamins
with vitamin D. Vitamin
D from ultraviolet rays from
the sun, very important.
Mixes with the
cholesterol in your skin.
>>NOORY: I take a D supplement.
>>BOLLINGER: Take a
D supplement, too.
>>NOORY: Good old doctor told
me a couple years, he says,
Georgie, your D levels
are a little low.
I want you to raise those.
So I've been--
>>BOLLINGER: Great advice.
Now, Creighton University
study from 2009, 77% of cancers
can be mitigated with
proper vitamin D. Very,
very important to take vitamin
D. Because most people,
especially in the northern part
of the United States, Canada,
all over the world, if you're
not getting much sunlight,
you're probably
low in vitamin D.
Carnivore, we've
already mentioned.
Great immunomodulating agent.
So you want your immune
system to be modulated--
you don't want to rev it up,
you don't want it down regulate.
You want it nice and even,
like an engine of a car.
You don't want it
revving too high,
and that's what
the carnivora does.
Another great modulator
for the immune system
is beta-1 3D glucan.
Great modulator.
>>NOORY: What the heck is that?
>>BOLLINGER: It's an
extract from brown rice.
Sometimes they get the
glucans from mushrooms.
Yeah, some medicinal
mushrooms have beta glucan,
and they extract it.
Fantastic.
I take it every day, my
wife and kids do, as well.
Selenium, very important
in cancer prevention.
Food-based selenium,
there have been
studies that show an inverse
relationship in the countries
that have high
selenium, low cancers.
Low selenium, high cancer rates.
>>NOORY: I'm a
booster of turmeric.
I love it.
I think the curry within it.
>>BOLLINGER: Huge
effect on cancer cells.
Very anti-cancer.
And that's why many of
the auravedic formulas,
the auravedic medicine,
they all contain turmeric.
And they all contain
black pepper, too.
Because the black pepper,
causes it actually
causes your body to be able
to absorb the nutrition that's
in these other herbs.
So that's why all the
auravedic recipes,
if you notice, they all
include the black pepper,
because it causes your body
to absorb the other herbs.
But turmeric, very important
in fighting cancer.
>>NOORY: How did the
ancients know this,
and we somehow
lost it over time?
>>BOLLINGER: Good question.
I think they knew it, because
we have innate wisdom.
And man, we're very smart.
And they were smart 2,000,
3,000, 5,000 years ago, too.
It's not that
we've become smart.
They were very smart then.
The problem today is that
we have been miseducated
in the field of
medicine-- specifically
degenerative
diseases like cancer.
Now, I was telling some
folks out in the lobby
before the show
that I'm not talking
about all medicine in general.
I'm not trying to
put a broad scope--
like, trauma
medicine, we're great.
Somebody hacks my arm off,
we go to the emergency room.
>>NOORY: I think
mainstream medicine--
and I want everybody to
know this-- is phenomenal.
They do a great job.
>>BOLLINGER: Me, too.
Especially with trauma,
with these surgeries where
they can replace people's eyes,
and they sew back on limbs,
and they work with these
veterans that come over
and they're doing these amazing
surgeries on their legs.
Amazing.
I'm talking specifically in the
area of treating cancer, here,
that the treatments are
really in the Dark Ages.
They're not working well.
But I'm not indicting the whole
medical system, by any means.
>>NOORY: What
would an oncologist
say to you after
they read this book?
>>BOLLINGER: I've had
responses all over the board.
I've had oncologists tell me
that I am a conspiracy theorist
quack that is killing
cancer patients.
And I've also been
contacted by at least three,
four dozen-- maybe
more-- oncologists
over the past few
years, asking me
what they should do because
they or their family's
been diagnosed with cancer.
>>NOORY: Killing
cancer patients?
>>BOLLINGER: I've
been accused of that.
>>NOORY: Not once
have I heard you say,
don't go see your doctor.
>>BOLLINGER: Never said that.
>>NOORY: Not once.
But many oncologists have
contacted me and asked me
what they should do for
cancer, because they realize
that the conventional
treatments aren't working,
and I've actually consulted
oncologists-- as weird
as that sounds--
in treating cancer
for them or their family.
>>NOORY: What drives you?
>>BOLLINGER: I want
to help people.
My family suffered.
There's no one that should lose
their whole family to cancer.
By the time I was 35, I was
basically the oldest person
in my family, except
for one grandmother.
I lost everyone else to cancer.
And people should not
have to go through that.
My kids should not
have to go through life
without knowing
their grandparents.
And so we've suffered.
And so I want other families
not to have to suffer like that.
I want to give them
the knowledge where
they can make an
informed decision,
and treat their cancer
the way that they should.
>>NOORY: If cancer had
a brain, they probably
would see you coming
going, oh no, not him.
>>BOLLINGER: You know, I just
hope that through the DVDs,
the books, through all the
speaking and then the research
that I've done that I'm
able to help people.
That's all that I care about.
>>NOORY: Ty, if people
want to get a hold of you,
track you, what
do you recommend?
What's your website?
>>BOLLINGER: Best place to
get me is www.cancertruth.net.
>>NOORY: Simple as that.
And with that, your book,
everything else, your DVDs--
>>BOLLINGER: It's all linked
through on that website.
>>NOORY: Well thanks
for helping people.
I think that's so important.
>>BOLLINGER: Thank you, George,
for giving me the platform.
>>NOORY: Ty Bollinger
on "Beyond Belief."
He fights cancer.
"Cancer: Step outside the Box."